Python
Numerical Libraries & Data Structures
numpy - NumPy is the fundamental package for scientific computing with Python.
scipy - SciPy (pronounced “Sigh Pie”) is a Python-based ecosystem of open-source software for mathematics, science, and engineering.
pandas - pandas is an open source, BSD-licensed library providing high-performance, easy-to-use data structures and data analysis tools for the Python programming language.
quantdsl - Domain specific language for quantitative analytics in finance and trading.
statistics - Builtin Python library for all basic statistical calculations.
sympy - SymPy is a Python library for symbolic mathematics.
pymc3 - Probabilistic Programming in Python: Bayesian Modeling and Probabilistic Machine Learning with Theano.
Financial Instruments and Pricing
PyQL - QuantLib's Python port.
pyfin - Basic options pricing in Python. [ARCHIVED]
vollib - vollib is a python library for calculating option prices, implied volatility and greeks.
QuantPy - A framework for quantitative finance In python.
Finance-Python - Python tools for Finance.
ffn - A financial function library for Python.
pynance - PyNance is open-source software for retrieving, analysing and visualizing data from stock and derivatives markets.
tia - Toolkit for integration and analysis.
pysabr - SABR model Python implementation.
FinancePy - A Python Finance Library that focuses on the pricing and risk-management of Financial Derivatives, including fixed-income, equity, FX and credit derivatives.
gs-quant - Python toolkit for quantitative finance
willowtree : error - Robust and flexible Python implementation of the willow tree lattice for derivatives pricing.
optlib - A library for financial options pricing written in Python.
tf-quant-finance - High-performance TensorFlow library for quantitative finance.
Indicators
finta - Common financial technical analysis indicators implemented in Pandas.
Tulipy - Financial Technical Analysis Indicator Library (Python bindings for tulipindicators)
lppls - A Python module for fitting the Log-Periodic Power Law Singularity (LPPLS) model.
Trading & Backtesting
TA-Lib - perform technical analysis of financial market data.
trade - trade is a Python framework for the development of financial applications.
zipline - Pythonic algorithmic trading library.
quantitative - Quantitative finance, and backtesting library.
analyzer - Python framework for real-time financial and backtesting trading strategies.
bt - Flexible Backtesting for Python.
backtrader - Python Backtesting library for trading strategies.
pyalgotrade - Python Algorithmic Trading Library.
ta - Technical Analysis Library using Pandas (Python)
algobroker - This is an execution engine for algo trading.
pysentosa - Python API for sentosa trading system.
finmarketpy - Python library for backtesting trading strategies and analyzing financial markets.
fooltrader - the project using big-data technology to provide an uniform way to analyze the whole market.
zvt - the project using sql,pandas to provide an uniform and extendable way to record data,computing factors,select securites, backtesting,realtime trading and it could show all of them in clearly charts in realtime.
pylivetrader - zipline-compatible live trading library.
pipeline-live - zipline's pipeline capability with IEX for live trading.
zipline-extensions : error - Zipline extensions and adapters for QuantRocket.
PyPortfolioOpt - Financial portfolio optimisation in python, including classical efficient frontier and advanced methods.
Eiten : error - Eiten is an open source toolkit by Tradytics that implements various statistical and algorithmic investing strategies such as Eigen Portfolios, Minimum Variance Portfolios, Maximum Sharpe Ratio Portfolios, and Genetic Algorithms based Portfolios.
riskparity.py - fast and scalable design of risk parity portfolios with TensorFlow 2.0
mlfinlab - Implementations regarding "Advances in Financial Machine Learning" by Marcos Lopez de Prado. (Feature Engineering, Financial Data Structures, Meta-Labeling)
pyqstrat - A fast, extensible, transparent python library for backtesting quantitative strategies.
pinkfish - A backtester and spreadsheet library for security analysis.
aat - Async Algorithmic Trading Engine
Backtesting.py : error - Backtest trading strategies in Python
catalyst - An Algorithmic Trading Library for Crypto-Assets in Python
quantstats - Portfolio analytics for quants, written in Python
qtpylib - QTPyLib, Pythonic Algorithmic Trading http://qtpylib.io
Quantdom - Python-based framework for backtesting trading strategies & analyzing financial markets [GUI :neckbeard:]
freqtrade - Free, open source crypto trading bot
algorithmic-trading-with-python : error - Free pandas and scikit-learn resources for trading simulation, backtesting, and machine learning on financial data.
DeepDow - Portfolio optimization with deep learning
Qlib - An AI-oriented Quantitative Investment Platform by Microsoft. Full ML pipeline of data processing, model training, back-testing; and covers the entire chain of quantitative investment: alpha seeking, risk modeling, portfolio optimization, and order execution.
machine-learning-for-trading : error - Code and resources for Machine Learning for Algorithmic Trading
AlphaPy - Automated Machine Learning [AutoML] with Python, scikit-learn, Keras, XGBoost, LightGBM, and CatBoost
jesse - An advanced crypto trading bot written in Python
rqalpha - A extendable, replaceable Python algorithmic backtest && trading framework supporting multiple securities.
bta-lib - Technical Analysis library in pandas for backtesting algotrading and quantitative analysis.
Stock-Prediction-Models : error - Gathers machine learning and deep learning models for Stock forecasting including trading bots and simulations.
tda-api - Gather data and trade equities, options, and ETFs via TDAmeritrade.
Risk Analysis
pyfolio - Portfolio and risk analytics in Python.
empyrical - Common financial risk and performance metrics.
finance - Financial Risk Calculations. Optimized for ease of use through class construction and operator overload.
qfrm - Quantitative Financial Risk Management: awesome OOP tools for measuring, managing and visualizing risk of financial instruments and portfolios.
visualize-wealth : error  - Portfolio construction and quantitative analysis.
VisualPortfolio - This tool is used to visualize the perfomance of a portfolio.
universal-portfolios - Collection of algorithms for online portfolio selection.
FinQuant - A program for financial portfolio management, analysis and optimisation.
Empyrial - Portfolio's risk and performance analytics and returns predictions.
Factor Analysis
alphalens - Performance analysis of predictive alpha factors.
Spectre - GPU-accelerated Factors analysis library and Backtester
Time Series
ARCH - ARCH models in Python.
statsmodels - Python module that allows users to explore data, estimate statistical models, and perform statistical tests.
dynts - Python package for timeseries analysis and manipulation.
PyFlux - Python library for timeseries modelling and inference (frequentist and Bayesian) on models.
tsfresh - Automatic extraction of relevant features from time series.
Facebook Prophet - Tool for producing high quality forecasts for time series data that has multiple seasonality with linear or non-linear growth.
tsmoothie - A python library for time-series smoothing and outlier detection in a vectorized way.
Calendars
exchange_calendars - Stock Exchange Trading Calendars.
bizdays - Business days calculations and utilities.
pandas_market_calendars - Exchange calendars to use with pandas for trading applications.
Data Sources
yfinance - Yahoo! Finance market data downloader (+faster Pandas Datareader)
findatapy - Python library to download market data via Bloomberg, Quandl, Yahoo etc.
googlefinance - Python module to get real-time stock data from Google Finance API.
yahoo-finance - Python module to get stock data from Yahoo! Finance.
pandas-datareader - Python module to get data from various sources (Google Finance, Yahoo Finance, FRED, OECD, Fama/French, World Bank, Eurostat...) into Pandas datastructures such as DataFrame, Panel with a caching mechanism.
pandas-finance - High level API for access to and analysis of financial data.
pyhoofinance - Rapidly queries Yahoo Finance for multiple tickers and returns typed data for analysis.
yfinanceapi - Finance API for Python.
yql-finance - yql-finance is simple and fast. API returns stock closing prices for current period of time and current stock ticker (i.e. APPL, GOOGL).
ystockquote - Retrieve stock quote data from Yahoo Finance.
wallstreet - Real time stock and option data.
stock_extractor - General Purpose Stock Extractors from Online Resources.
Stockex - Python wrapper for Yahoo! Finance API.
finsymbols - Obtains stock symbols and relating information for SP500, AMEX, NYSE, and NASDAQ.
FRB - Python Client for FRED® API.
inquisitor - Python Interface to Econdb.com API.
yfi - Yahoo! YQL library.
chinesestockapi - Python API to get Chinese stock price.
exchange - Get current exchange rate.
ticks - Simple command line tool to get stock ticker data.
ccy - Python module for currencies.
tushare - A utility for crawling historical and Real-time Quotes data of China stocks.
jsm : error - Get the japanese stock market data.
cn_stock_src - Utility for retrieving basic China stock data from different sources.
coinmarketcap - Python API for coinmarketcap.
bronto-python - Bronto API Integration for Python.
pytdx - Python Interface for retrieving chinese stock realtime quote data from TongDaXin Nodes.
pdblp - A simple interface to integrate pandas and the Bloomberg Open API.
tiingo - Python interface for daily composite prices/OHLC/Volume + Real-time News Feeds, powered by the Tiingo Data Platform.
iexfinance - Python Interface for retrieving real-time and historical prices and equities data from The Investor's Exchange.
pyEX - Python interface to IEX with emphasis on pandas, support for streaming data, premium data, points data (economic, rates, commodities), and technical indicators.
alpaca-trade-api - Python interface for retrieving real-time and historical prices from Alpaca API as well as trade execution.
metatrader5 - API Connector to MetaTrader 5 Terminal
akshare - AkShare is an elegant and simple financial data interface library for Python, built for human beings! https://akshare.readthedocs.io
yahooquery - Python interface for retrieving data through unofficial Yahoo Finance API.
investpy - Financial Data Extraction from Investing.com with Python! https://investpy.readthedocs.io/
yliveticker - Live stream of market data from Yahoo Finance websocket.
alpha_vantage - A python wrapper for Alpha Vantage API for financial data.
Excel Integration
xlwings - Make Excel fly with Python.
openpyxl - Read/Write Excel 2007 xlsx/xlsm files.
xlrd - Library for developers to extract data from Microsoft Excel spreadsheet files.
xlsxwriter - Write files in the Excel 2007+ XLSX file format.
xlwt - Library to create spreadsheet files compatible with MS Excel 97/2000/XP/2003 XLS files, on any platform.
expy - The ExPy add-in allows easy use of Python directly from within an Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, both to execute arbitrary code and to define new Excel functions.
pyxll - PyXLL is an Excel add-in that enables you to extend Excel using nothing but Python code.
Visualization
mplfinance - matplotlib utilities for the visualization, and visual analysis, of financial data.
finplot - Performant and effortless finance plotting for Python.
finvizfinance - Finviz analysis python library.
pyfingerprint - python library for fingerprint
adafruit_fingerprint - python library for fingerprint
qrcode - python library for qrcode
pyqrcode - python library for qrcode
